What is shell?

A shell is a program that provides an interface between a user and an operating system kernel.

A kernel is a program that:
	- Controls all computer operation
	- Coordinates all executing utilities
	- Ensure that executing ultilities do not interfare with each other or consume all system resource
	- Schedules and manage all system processes.

A shell also provides a user envirnment that you can customize using initialization files. These files contain settings for user envirnment characteristics, such as

	- Search paths for finding commands.
	- Default permissions on new files.
	- Values for variables that other programs use.
	- Values that you can customize.
	
What are the different Shells?

1. The Bourne Shell (The original UNIX shell)
	 It is the preferred shell for shell programming because of its compactness and speed. A Bourne shell drawback is that it lacks features for interactive use, such as the ability to recall previous commands (history). The Bourne shell also lacks built-in arithmetic and logical expression handling.
	 
2. The C shell
	Incorporated features for interactive use, such as aliases and command history.
	Includes convenient programming features, such as built-in arithmetic and a C-like expression syntax.
	
3. The Korn Shell
	Is a superset of the Bourne shell.
	Supports everything in the Bourne shell.
	Has interactive features comparable to those in the C shell.
	Includes convenient programming features like built-in arithmetic and C-like arrays, functions, and string-manipulation facilities.
	Is faster than the C shell.
	Runs scripts written for the Bourne shell.
	
4. The GNU Bourne-Again Shell
	Is compatible to the Bourne shell.
	Incorporates useful features from the Korn and C shells.
	Has arrow keys that are automatically mapped for command recall and editing.

Here is a short comparison of the all 4 shells and their properties.

      Shell 	                            Path 	         Default Prompt (non-root user) 	Default Prompt (Root user)
The Bourne Shell (sh) 	             /bin/sh and /sbin/sh 	              $ 	                            #
The C Shell (csh) 	                     /bin/csh 	                      % 	                            #
The Korn Shell (ksh) 	                 /bin/ksh 	                      $ 	                            #
The GNU Bourne-Again Shell (Bash) 	     /bin/bash 	                 bash-x.xx$ 	                    bash-x.xx#